README.md, before:

# NodeUtilities

A nodes extension for use with
[InvokeAI](https://github.com/invoke-ai/InvokeAI "InvokeAI").

NodeUtilities is a collection of utility nodes written by me over time.

## Installation

To install, place the desired `.py` files into your InvokeAI invocations folder
located here:

Windows - `invokeai\.venv\Lib\site-packages\invokeai\app\invocations\`
<br>Mac/Linux - `invokeai/.venv/lib/python3.10/site-packages/invokeai/app/invocations/`

## Nodes

### Remove Background

Outputs an image with the background removed behind the subject using rembg.

Remove Background requires the `rembg` [Python package](https://pypi.org/project/rembg/).

To install `rembg`, first activate InvokeAI's virtual environment. From your 
InvokeAI root folder execute: `source .venv/bin/activate`. Then execute: 
`pip install rembg`.

Remove Background will pass through the unaltered original image if `rembg`
isn't installed in InvokeAI's virtual environment.

Note: rembg installs its onnx models to a hidden `u2net` directory in your user
home folder.

![rembg](https://github.com/ymgenesis/FaceTools/assets/25252829/9b47938a-7689-4d8a-a027-4f0f083fcca1)
![rembgresult](https://github.com/ymgenesis/FaceTools/assets/25252829/7b1a4e09-e2d0-41df-bf04-3f6797628aca)

### Adaptive EQ

Adaptive Histogram Equalization using skimage.

![eq](https://github.com/ymgenesis/FaceTools/assets/25252829/eb6d65eb-8f91-4981-a713-21f428860f4e)
![eqresult](https://github.com/ymgenesis/FaceTools/assets/25252829/4233d8b9-21d2-4549-b629-2aa0bf3083c6)

### Center Pad Crop

Pad or crop an image's sides from the center by specified pixels. Positive 
values are outside of the image.

![cpc](https://github.com/ymgenesis/FaceTools/assets/25252829/f8269881-bd91-437e-b2ee-daeb4192d7e9)
![cpcresult](https://github.com/ymgenesis/FaceTools/assets/25252829/ab050ae1-6c8f-43ff-b0d4-48987fe78801)
<hr>

#### Source Image

![orig](https://github.com/ymgenesis/FaceTools/assets/25252829/eabd6361-722c-4215-ae95-ef62ac489547)

Commit message:

checkerboard cpc result
- add a checkerboard to background of center pad crop to illustration transparency

README.md, after:

# NodeUtilities

A nodes extension for use with
[InvokeAI](https://github.com/invoke-ai/InvokeAI "InvokeAI").

NodeUtilities is a collection of utility nodes written by me over time.

## Installation

To install, place the desired `.py` files into your InvokeAI invocations folder
located here:

Windows - `invokeai\.venv\Lib\site-packages\invokeai\app\invocations\`
<br>Mac/Linux - `invokeai/.venv/lib/python3.10/site-packages/invokeai/app/invocations/`

## Nodes

### Remove Background

Outputs an image with the background removed behind the subject using rembg.

Remove Background requires the `rembg` [Python package](https://pypi.org/project/rembg/).

To install `rembg`, first activate InvokeAI's virtual environment. From your 
InvokeAI root folder execute: `source .venv/bin/activate`. Then execute: 
`pip install rembg`.

Remove Background will pass through the unaltered original image if `rembg`
isn't installed in InvokeAI's virtual environment.

Note: rembg installs its onnx models to a hidden `u2net` directory in your user
home folder.

![rembg](https://github.com/ymgenesis/FaceTools/assets/25252829/9b47938a-7689-4d8a-a027-4f0f083fcca1)
![rembgresult](https://github.com/ymgenesis/FaceTools/assets/25252829/7b1a4e09-e2d0-41df-bf04-3f6797628aca)

### Adaptive EQ

Adaptive Histogram Equalization using skimage.

![eq](https://github.com/ymgenesis/FaceTools/assets/25252829/eb6d65eb-8f91-4981-a713-21f428860f4e)
![eqresult](https://github.com/ymgenesis/FaceTools/assets/25252829/4233d8b9-21d2-4549-b629-2aa0bf3083c6)

### Center Pad Crop

Pad or crop an image's sides from the center by specified pixels. Positive 
values are outside of the image. Checkerboard added to background
of result for demonstration.

![cpc](https://github.com/ymgenesis/FaceTools/assets/25252829/f8269881-bd91-437e-b2ee-daeb4192d7e9)
![cpcresultcheckerboard](https://github.com/ymgenesis/NodeUtilities/assets/25252829/9d60881c-cd25-4f53-9368-d471daef637c)
<hr>

#### Source Image

![orig](https://github.com/ymgenesis/FaceTools/assets/25252829/eabd6361-722c-4215-ae95-ef62ac489547)
